 A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines. If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. A different drummer. And now, coming to you from dead center on your dial, welcome to Risk Parity Radio, where we explore alternatives and asset allocations for the do-it-yourself investor. Broadcasting to you now from the comfort of his easy chair, here is your host, Frank Vasquez. Thank you, Mary, and welcome to Risk Parity Radio. If you are new here and wonder what we are talking about, you may wish to go back and listen to some of the foundational episodes for this program. Yeah, baby, yeah! And the basic foundational episodes are episodes 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9. Some of our listeners, including Karen and Chris, have identified additional episodes that you may consider foundational. And those are episodes 12, 14, 16, 19, 21, 56, 82, and 184. Whoa! And you probably should check those out, too, because we have the finest podcast audience available. Top drawer. Really top drawer. Along with a host named after a hot dog. Lighten up, Francis. But now, onward, episode 261. Today on Risk Parody Radio, we will continue to hack away at the pile of emails that keeps growing Since I keep traveling on weekends I'm not making too much progress here Looks like you've been missing a lot of work lately I wouldn't say I've been missing it, Bob But we'll do what we can do And without further ado Here I go once again with the email. And... First off... First off, we have an email from My Contact Info. Oh, I didn't know you were doing one. Oh, sure. And My Contact Info writes... Frank, continue to enjoy your podcast. Thank you. Below is a topic that most are aware of, but I thought the below article provides meaningful detail. You are correct, sir. Yes. All right. What he is referring to here is an article from Michael Kitsis. It is entitled Navigating the Capital Gains Bump Zone When Ordinary Income Crowds Out Favorable Capital Gains Rates. And this is about the phenomenon that your capital gains income for a year, any given year under U.S. federal tax law, stacks on top of the ordinary income, and so the amount of ordinary income in effect changes your capital gains tax rates. And not only that, the capital gains tax brackets do not exactly line up with the ordinary income brackets, making it even more complicated. ordinary income brackets, making it even more complicated. Don't be saucy with me, Bernays. So it is something that you should be acutely aware of as a U.S. taxpayer, particularly if you have significant capital gains. And I will link to the article in the show notes, although the topic is not very conducive to discussing on a podcast because it gets very complicated very quickly. And you do need to be looking at the brackets and charts and graphs that are presented there. In the end, though, I'm not certain how helpful it is to be talking about bump zones of higher taxation for small amounts of money. higher taxation for small amounts of money. What really matters in the end is what you would call your effective tax rate being when all is said and done, how much of your total income will you have to pay in taxes. And so I always try to focus on that and do the calculations using some tax software. And for most people, especially retirees, the time to really focus on this is in the fourth quarter of every year, because by that time you have a sense of what your income has been like for the year, and then you can decide whether you're going to do any IRA conversions, tax loss harvesting, or make any other moves, if you will. In terms of your assets, so that you can minimize the tax burden. And when I say minimize the tax burden, it should be done over time, because you can easily fall into the trap of minimizing your tax burden for one particular year. And then ending up with even more to pay in other particular years. So it tends to be better to spread out your income over as many years as possible. Thereby keeping yourself in the lower tax brackets on a marginal basis. Yes! But I will leave the article there in the show notes for perusal by our most august audience. All hail Caesar, Emperor of Rome, Monarch of the Roman Empire, Ruler of the World. And thank you for your email. Second off, we have an email from Mark. All hail the commander of his majesty's Roman legions, the brave and noble Marcus Vindictus. And Mark writes, Hi Frank, I know you made the request a while back for suggestions of additional foundational episodes, but I just got finished listening to all of the episodes and had a couple of recommendations. Yeah baby, yeah! of recommendations. I thought that both episodes 208 and 209 should totally be added to your recommended list. 208 is a well-crafted masterpiece to explain investing in a creative way to beginners. Loved it. 209 does a really great job rebutting financial myths that so commonly get thrown around. It actually made me realize that I was holding on to some of those myths in my own financial independence planning, so I really appreciated that episode. Bing again! Looking forward to many more episodes. Keep up the great work, Mark. Bing! Bing! All right, Mark, thank you for identifying those. It does remind me I probably do need to update the little intros I stick on the beginning of these podcasts, since we often start in the weeds with the emails and then stay in the weeds or maybe end up in another place. weeds or maybe end up in another place. You're gonna end up eating a steady diet of government cheese and living in a van down by the river. But anyway, for reference, episode 208 was advice for new investors were off to see the wizard. And this was done at the general suggestion of Paul Merriman, who asked me if I would have an episode directed at beginning investors. And so it follows a Wizard of Oz theme for those beginning investors. Do you presume to criticize the great Oz, you ungrateful creatures? Think yourselves lucky that I'm giving you audience tomorrow instead of 20 years from now. The great Oz has spoken. Now, episode 209 is entitled Popular Safe Withdrawal Rate Delusions and the Madness of Gurus, along with portfolio reviews for September 30th. And that one gets at some of the hysterical pessimism and other inappropriate assumptions that I often hear in popular finance because saying everything's falling apart and nothing's going to work in the future and we can't spend any of our money real wrath of god type stuff tends to attract more attention fire and brimstone coming down from the skies than practical advice about how to approach these things so that we can spend more of our money rivers and seas boiling 40 years of darkness earthquakes volcanoes the dead rising And I go through a laundry list of those things there As suggested by one of our listeners And so you can all check those out If you haven't already. And I'll get to work on redoing my second introductions to include your suggestions as foundational episodes people may want to check out. Of course, people do go both ways. And if any of the rest of you besides Mark have any ideas for what to suggest as foundational episodes for newer listeners to listen to, I would be grateful if you would send me an email and tell me what you think. That and a nickel get your hot cup a jack squat! And be kind. Or if you're not going to be kind, at least be entertaining. Like I'm a clown, I abuse you? I'll take it either way. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul. And thank you for your email. Next off, we have an email from Casey. I'm your boogeyman. That's what I am. I'm here to do whatever I can. And Casey writes. Hi, Frank. Big Earn really likes to bust your opinions on his blog. He again called your ideas on home ownership a wacky idea in his last post. Forget about it. Do you have anything to refute his conclusions? I don't own a house and I'm not planning to do so because I don't believe in it. I don't agree with his passionate conclusions on home buying. I share the millennial revolution approach that not buying a house will set you free and so far it certainly has been. Thoughts? Well, Casey, Karsten and I are a little bit fond of taking intellectual shots at each other now and again. You're insane, Goldmember! And that's the way, uh-huh, uh-huh, I like it. And you shouldn't read too much into the banter. Duck season! Wabbit season! Duck season! Wabbit season! Because it really is kind of like that cartoon celebrity death match we talked about back in episode 223. Only in America could there be a fight like this, on a night like this, in a beautiful city like this. So anyway, before he posted that, he did give me the courtesy of sending me an email and telling me it was coming and asking me to comment upon it which i have done on that post in the comment section and you can peruse that at your leisure johnny the dreaded purple nurple i haven't seen this move since the fifth grade amazing nick if you haven't already since this email the fifth grade. Amazing, Nick. If you haven't already, since this email is over a month old now. But anyway, this debate that we were having there or have been having has to do with the appropriate assumptions for inflation for a retiree. And I had said, and I still say, that personal inflation is personal and that it is something that is well within the control of most retirees and that one way one can minimize their personal inflation is to minimize the growth of their housing costs, which can be done if you own your own house or have a fixed rate mortgage. And he put together something to refute that in the form of a simulation that he ran in his toolbox. And I don't disagree that the fact that you can come up with a simulation or an example of where paying rent would be the better choice than buying a house. Fight fans, this is the stupidest match I've ever seen. It's the fight about nothing. But it's kind of just looking at one tree within a large forest. And what that forest tells you, and what the research has told us, is that the inflation rate for an average retiree in the United States, and this comes from David Blanchett and then from Morningstar, is approximately 1% less than the CPI. And that includes all retirees, who granted are mostly older retirees, but it does include all the ones that Blanchett has surveyed. And my observation was, well, if that is the average capability of managing expenses for all retirees, then somebody with some intentionality ought to be able to do even a little bit better than that. The consequences of that for your safe withdrawal rate are that it tends to raise your safe withdrawal rate are that it tends to raise the safe withdrawal rate. So if your personal rate of inflation is 1% less than the CPI, that in effect raises your safe withdrawal rate of the money you can take out of your portfolio by about 0.6%, as found by Morningstar in their recent analysis that came out in December of 2022. Now, as to housing, usually this is done in more of a lumpy way in terms of reducing expenses and then maintaining that reduction over time. And Karsten's experience is exactly that. If you look at his earlier posts about him retiring from San Francisco, moving from there, doing some geo-arbitrage to a lower cost area, and then buying a different house, obviously that reduced his overall housing costs by a great deal. And so if you were to compare what his living costs are now compared to what they would have been had he stayed in San Francisco and perhaps rented, his rate of personal inflation from that point is probably negative. But I did suggest in the end of my post commenting on his post that perhaps it would be interesting for him to run those figures since he had those at hand and he had already discussed them before in his blog there. discussed them before in his blog there. Another place where you'll find this discussed very recently is on the Earn and Invest podcast that came out last week, which featured Christine Benz and Joe Salcihai. And Christine was talking about this study that they did in late 2022, and about how using variable withdrawal rates could improve your effective safe withdrawal rate and that one of those mechanisms was in fact managing your personal rate of inflation and she did mention housing costs as one of specific question, do you need to own a house to do this? And the answer is no. Forget about it. But if you are early retired and not chained down to any one location, your best option is probably to do some geo-arbitrage and simply move to a lower-cost location if the rents in your area get too high. And that would be another way of minimizing your housing costs and reducing your personal inflation rate, thereby allowing you to have a higher safe withdrawal rate. And so there are many ways to skin this cat. Ultimately, the main point I was trying to get at and what we actually talked about back in episode 209, now that you mention it, is that the assumption made originally by Bill Bengen that your personal inflation rate would rise at the rate of CPI when he was first calculating safe withdrawal rates back in 1994 is actually a conservative assumption and is probably an inaccurate assumption. And we know that from all the research that David Blanchett and others have done since then, which means that on that basis, the projected safe withdrawal rate was too low and is probably too low if you are making that assumption. So you can either adjust what you are doing to reflect inflation or simply recognize it as a buffer or additional fail-safe. You need somebody watching your back at all times. Our own personal experience since 2020 is that our expenses actually have declined overall and for a variety of reasons. And I do anticipate that they will decline further in the future, especially after we finally move out of our big family raising house into something less expensive, as Karsten's family has also done. So as long as you understand the principle that personal inflation is personal, and that if it's below what the cpi says your safe withdrawal rate as commonly calculated is likely to be higher than it otherwise would be according to the calculation did you see the memo about this if you understand those principles and can apply them then i've gotten my message across didn't you get that memo? Regardless of what simulations others may propose. I'll go ahead and make sure you get another copy of that memo. Okay. And thank you for that email. Last off. Last off, we have an email from Eric from Cincy. She's a killer queen. Got body genity. Dynamite with a laser beam. Guaranteed to blow your mind. And Eric from Cincy writes, Dear Uncle Frank, There have been a lot of recent discussions about bucketing on the podcast lately, and I wanted to contribute with a link to a blog post by Ben Carlson at a Wealth of Common Sense blog. The title of the post is, The Mental Accounting of Asset Allocation. Perhaps you can add a link to the show notes and then we can put this subject to bed. I think it is reasonable to suggest that we can agree that bucketing is not a strategy or allocation. Bucketing is a mental trick to help give individual investors a sense of comfort. Thank you, Eric and Cincy. Well, Eric, I agree with you, although I'm not sure we'll ever be able to put this to bed because it's also something that is popular and creates headlines in addition to confusion. But I think Ben Carlson explains that pretty well in his blog post. And he writes some very nice blog posts, including one last year, about the non-difference between bond ladders and bond funds, which also ends up being a form of mental accounting. Now, to me, there's nothing wrong with using some mental accounting in your management of your financial affairs, particularly if it helps you sleep at night and all you are doing is matching up some assets with future liabilities or something similar. The problem only comes when you mistake that kind of management as an actual strategy from a mathematical point of view. Because if you do get fixated on the mental accounting aspects of this, it can make you distort your actual strategy in the form of your actual portfolio allocations or other things. And when you do that just to fit with some mental accounting framework, you are just getting suboptimal results. But we just did a whole lot of discussion about this back in episodes 251 and 253. And so I would go listen to those if you haven't already, because that's where we do try to separate the wheat from the chaff, the actual strategies from the mental accountings, the dogs from the tails. Who let the dogs out? Who let the dogs out? Who? Who? Who? Who? And including the tails with the buckets attached to them. and including the tails with the buckets attached to them. Which is not always a pleasant sight or sound. But I will link to this in the show notes and I'm sure we will continue to beat this dead horse on occasion. And thank you for your email. But now I see our signal is beginning to fade, as seems to be our tradition this month. There will not be a podcast this weekend, because I'll be once more on hiatus. I don't like my job, and I don't think I'm going to go anymore. We will update the website. Hopefully that'll be good enough. In the meantime, if you have comments or questions for me, please send them to frank at riskparityradio.com. That email is frank at riskparityradio.com, or you can go to the website, www.riskparityradio.com, and put your message into the contact form form and I'll get it that way. If you haven't had a chance to do it, please go to your favorite podcast provider and like, subscribe, give me some stars, a review. That would be great. Okay. Thank you once again for tuning in. This is Frank Vasquez with Risk Parity Radio. Signing off. The Risk Parody Radio show is hosted by Frank Vasquez. The content provided is for entertainment and informational purposes only and does not constitute financial, investment, tax, or legal advice. Please consult with your own advisors before taking any actions based on any information you have heard here, making sure to take into account your own personal circumstances.