 A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines. If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. A different drummer. And now, coming to you from dead center on your dial, welcome to Risk Parity Radio, where we explore alternatives and asset allocations for the do-it-yourself investor. Broadcasting to you now from the comfort of his easy chair, here is your host, Frank Vasquez. Thank you, Mary, and welcome to Risk Parity Radio. If you have just stumbled in here, you will find that this podcast is kind of like a dive bar of personal finance and do-it-yourself investing. Expect the unexpected. It's a relatively small place. It's just me and Mary in here. And we only have a few mismatched bar stools and some easy chairs. We have no sponsors, we have no guests, and we have no expansion plans. I don't think I'd like another job. What we do have is a little free library of updated and unconflicted information for do-it-yourself investors. Now, who's up for a trip to the library tomorrow? So please enjoy our mostly cold beer served in cans and our coffee served in old chipped and cracked mugs, along with what our little free library has to offer. Welcome! But now onward, episode 339 Today on Risk Parody Radio We're going to get back to your emails Which seem to be stacking up here And I will get to all of them eventually It's not that I'm lazy It's that I just don't care which seem to be stacking up here, and I will get to all of them eventually. It's not that I'm lazy. It's that I just don't care. But first, actually, two interesting items from the news this past week. First, there's an interesting article out by David Blanchett at the ThinkAdvisor website, and it's entitled, Is the 4% Rule Too Safe? You can't handle the truth! And he argues, fairly convincingly, even though it's a short article, that 5% ought to be the baseline for the average retiree for financial advisors who are advising their clients. Watch out for that first step, it's a doozy! And he notes that 61% are still at 4%, and a number more are even less than that. Now, this is pretty much what we've been saying here all along, since the middle of 2020 when we started this podcast, inconceivable, that it was possible to achieve a better safe withdrawal rate than the 4% rule would imply if you used a better portfolio and more reasonable assumptions and management techniques as far as inflation and withdrawals were concerned. Because based on a lot of poorly done research, there had been a lot of papers in the past 10 years that suggested that the 4% rule was dead and you had to go lower than that and dogs and cats were going to live together. You can't handle the dogs and cats living together! But it seems like people are finally getting the memo. Did you get that memo? And here's how we know that things have changed. 11 years ago, this same author, David Blanchett, along with Michael Finke and Wade Pfau, and Wade Pfau wrote a paper that is entitled, The 4% Rule is Not Safe in a Low-Yield World. Exactly the opposite headline from the one he just wrote last week. And I've criticized those analyses in the past. They're based on balty assumptions. And now it appears that he's admitted that he was wrong, and they were wrong, and they have been wrong for a very long time. Wrong! So it's nice to see some people are coming around to the truth about this. Didn't you get that memo? With the real question being, why did it take them a decade to get there? When it seems pretty obvious from anybody who's actually analyzing portfolios that we can all hold. And I'll go ahead and make sure you get another copy of that memo. Okay. Maybe they just thought it would be better for their AUM fees if their clients did not spend their money and it just kept growing. My straw reaches across the room and starts to drink your milkshake. Because the bigger the milkshake is, the sweeter the drinking. I drink your milkshake. I drink it up. Anyway, it's nice to see that a few prominent people are finally getting the memo. Yes. I have the memo. Yes. I have the memo. And let's hope that trend continues. I will link to the new article and the original paper in the show notes. The second newsworthy item came out just in the past couple days. It is an article about the financial independence movement by a journalist at the New York Times who had attended the Economy Conference. Now, most of the article is very sensational and probably not worth reading because it's about tech bros who had cashed out large sums from startup stuff in their 20s. Do you think anybody wants a roundhouse kick to the face while I'm wearing these bad boys? Forget about it. And are running around buying expensive cars and houses and flashing their wealth. Forget about it! So the headline and the opening part of the article and the end of the article are all fairly sensational. Clickbaity. like a garbage truck dropped off the empire state building but the middle of the article does talk about normal people at the economy conference yes and in particular the case study that I participated in, that we did that Sunday morning. And I will just read you what it says here, because it's my claim to fame this week. Surely you can't be serious. I am serious. And don't call me Shirley. And I quote, In one morning session, a brave volunteer named Krista put her life's balance sheet up on a big screen so that 500 strangers could critique it for blind spots. She is 35 with four kids, ages 16, 15, 9, and 7, and makes $32,000 working in a library in Wisconsin. Over the last seven years since discovering FIRE, she and her husband had slowly paid off $200,000 in credit card and home and auto loan debt. But she knew, she said, humbly dipping her head a bit, that she still had a long way to go, especially when compared with all the younger, already retired millionaires in the room. Wait a second, Frank Vasquez, one of the conference speakers, interrupted. No. Do you all see this? Crystal was a teenage mom who grew up in poverty. We are looking right now at a map of a hero's journey. And I meant every word I said there. The map, in fact, we were looking at is the one we talked about in episode 208, which is for beginning investors and getting from starting saving all the way to financial independence, along with the numbers she provided. Now, it would have been a much better article if they would have spent a lot more time on Krista's story and forgot about the tech bros and their Lamborghinis. No more flying solo. Because financial independence should not be just for tech bros and chiefs and warriors and rich and powerful people. It should be for all the people. Only the eyes of a chief may see the eve of Mista. This was not written for chiefs. Hear me. Hear this! Among my people, we carry many such words as this from many lands, many worlds. Many are equally good and are as well respected. But wherever we have gone, no words have said this thing of importance in quite this way. Look at these three words written larger than the rest with a special pride never written before or since tall words proudly saying, we the people. That which you called Eid plebnista was not written for the chiefs or the kings or the warriors or the rich or the powerful, but for all the people. Anyway, I'll try to link to the article when I think it's behind a paywall and you can check it out. But now let's get to your emails. And so without further ado, here I go once again with the email. And first off, first off, we have an email from Average Joe.! Average Joe! And Average Joe writes, In the spirit of Spanish football announcers, I have a question about GOLD! Mary, Mary, I need your huggin'. I need your huggin'. I am building a decumulation golden butterfly portfolio with a target accumulation of gold within one to four years from retirement. The Wall Street Journal reports that Chinese buyers' purchase of gold bars and coins rose 26.77% to 106.32 tons. With China and Russia buying gold for diversification from international sanctions, would I need to have the patience of Job to wait it out until gold stabilizes or falls, or dollar-cost average into a new gold price floor to diversify with what gold is presently priced? I am concerned it may take a decade for the price to fall. Crystal ball crashing. Sincerely, Average Joe from Arkansas. P.S. I placed a donation to the Father McKenna Center as your response is worth more than the weight of gold. Yeah baby, yeah! Well, first, thank you for your donation, and we have moved you to the front of the line. As most of you know, we do not have any sponsors on this podcast, but we do support a charity called the Father McKenna Center that helps hungry and homeless people in Washington, D.C. And if you make a donation to the Father McKenna Center, you get to go to the front of the email line. And you can do that in the front of the email line. And you can do that in a couple of different ways. You can go through our support page and donate through Patreon, and we're set up there for that. Or you can also go directly to the Father McKenna website, as Joe has done, and make your donation there directly. Money! Either way, if you've done it, please note that in your email so I can flag it and move it to the front of the line. And thank you for your support. Now getting to your question. Yes, it does seem that people are getting pretty excited about gold these days and buying it at Costco and evidently there are shops in Korea they're selling little bars. I saw another headline about that recently. I love gold! It does always worry me because usually it's when people start buying gold coins and little gold bars is when it's reaching another all-time high. But that kind of frenzy actually can go on for years, as it did in the 1970s. Buy low, sell high. Fear? That's the other guy's problem. And for a while in the early 2000s. All my life I've been in love with its color, its brilliance, its divine heaviness. I welcome any enterprise that will increase my stock. So I don't think you can really use it to predict anything. And I think gold is one of the most unpredictable things to try to use a crystal ball on. A crystal ball can help you. It can guide you. It can trend one way for five or ten years or it can go nowhere for five or ten years. It's kind of looking at the aura around the ball. See the movement of energy around the outside of the ball. So I think for most people the easiest thing to do is just build out the position with new money that you're investing into your portfolio because there's no real way of saying that gold in the near term i guess you're talking about one to four years will be more or less valuable than it is today there just isn't a way to figure that out now you can also use the ball to connect to the spirit world out. Now you can also use the bull to connect to the spirit world. So no, I wouldn't be waiting around to buy gold now if you're looking to buy some gold now to fill out a portfolio. There has been a pullback, if that helps you at all, mentally. So I think you can just go ahead and dollar cost average into it over the next one to four years. Or not. But psychologically, that might be more pleasant than trying to go whole hog either now or at some date in the future. Because I can tell you that once you buy it, mostly it's just going to sit there. And that's the way. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. I like it. Casey and the Sunshine Band. Just please buy it in the form of ETFs, like normal professionals do these days, and don't be running around like Grandma and Grandpa Clampett, shoving gold coins in bars and coffee cans and burying them in your basement. Well, it's new to me. I've heard of gold dollars, silver dollars, paper dollars. But he says he's going to pay me in, what do you call them, Granny? Million dollars. Just treat it like all of your other investable assets. Sorry my crystal ball was all fuzzy about this as usual. We don't know. What do we know? You don't know. I don't know. Nobody knows. But that's to be expected. Do you expect me to talk? And thank you for your email. No, Mr. Bond, I expect you to die. Second off. Second off, we have an email from Matt. I've officially amounted to Jack, you squat! And Matt writes, Hi Frank and Mary, me again. Since I last messaged, I've been using Portfolio Charts and Portfolio Visualizer extensively and can't believe such great tools are available online at no charge. I have spent a lot of time looking at our current portfolio and I'm working to find the best long-term portfolio for long-term decumulation, 50 plus years. We are 43, me, and 52, my wife, and have been retired for two years now. Below are a few questions. One, after a lot of research on both websites, I believe the below portfolio is the best option for us based on our current holdings, trying to not sell and incur taxes just to change portfolio, while also taking full advantage of a portfolio similar to the golden butterfly ratio. This portfolio will require nearly zero sales in our brokerage account, and based on the metrics on the below chart, I feel it is well positioned to allow us a 4-5% withdrawal rate for the next 50 plus years. Thoughts? Current portfolio here, and planned portfolio here. 2. Managed Futures One allocation that I would still like to incorporate into the above-planned portfolio based on your feedback is managed futures. Since it is so difficult to look at these on portfolio charts or portfolio visualizer, how much would you recommend allocating to either DBMF or KMLM, or what would you take it away from, gold? Also, does it matter which type of account this goes in? Brokerage, IRA, or Roth? Three, gold. We have zero in gold at the moment and need to purchase a decent amount. With gold at all-time highs, would you consider waiting for a pullback or just invest in the asset up to the allocation amount now and move on. Four, brokerage account taxes. We are still trying to manage our taxable income for ACA purposes and the investments we have are throwing off a decent amount of dividends. A good problem to have, I know. With that said, are there recommendations you would have to lower this and then just sell as part of our annual rebalance to refill our bank account each year? The benefit being we have complete control over how much income versus having little to no control over what is given off by these funds in our brokerage account. Five, any other thoughts or suggestions? If there are any additional charts or information that would be helpful to better answer the above questions, please let me know and I will send over. Thank you again for all that you both do. Love listening to the podcast every week and always appreciate the laughs from the clips. You mean, let me understand this because I don't know. Maybe it's me. I'm funny how? I mean funny like I'm a clown. I amuse you. I make you laugh. I'm here to amuse you. What do you mean funny? Funny how? How am I funny? Well, we've got a lot to chew on here with five questions. Going to your first one, I did pull up these portfolios. I'll try to link to them in the show notes. You have to do a little gymnastics to make them come up in portfolio charts. And I'm going to be looking at the planned portfolio because otherwise this is going to get too confusing. So what your planned portfolio looks like is on a macro allocation basis is 62% in stocks, and that includes 2% in REITs, 23% in treasury bonds, of which 10% are short-term and in T-bills, and then you've got 15% in gold. All in all, that looks like a pretty good portfolio to me. And as David Blanchett says, we should start with a 5% safe withdrawal rate now, although I see you're going for a 50-year time frame. But between 4% and 5% should be easily achievable. I am wondering whether you've got a little too much on the cash side here. 10% is okay, but then if you're going to have that much in cash, I'd probably move some of the intermediate treasury bonds over to the long-term treasury bonds because that will give you a little bit better protection in a recession. But I think this portfolio is well within good parameters. I'm not sure you really need that 2% in REITs. It's probably not doing much of anything. So that could just be folded into your other stock allocations if you wanted to, but I have no objection to you keeping them. It's just a management issue. Make sure if you do have REITs, you're putting them in an IRA because they do throw off ordinary income. Question number two, manage futures. Considering allocation to those and wondering where you should take it from and whether you should go with DBMF or KMLM or something else. Well, let's answer that question first. I think DBMF is the closest thing to an index fund in that category, so I would probably use that one. In general, the recommendation for alternatives is between about 15 and 25 percent. You already have 15 percent in gold, so I would not add any more than 10 percent in a managed futures fund. And that incidentally is similar to what we actually hold in our personal accounts, about 15 percent in gold and about 10% in a managed futures fund. Now, where should it come from? Well, I think I would probably use the 2% in REITs for this purpose and then just take a little bit out of each other thing. I probably would raid the short-term bonds and then move a little bit of the intermediate-term bonds over to the long-term side. But you could also think about something that is 10% gold and 10% DBMF as the total allocation to alternatives, which might work pretty well with this portfolio. And if you did that, you could take the 5% from gold, 2% from the REITs, and 3% from the short-term bonds or T-bills. Or you could go over and take some of the other stock allocation because you still have 60 percent going on in the stocks even after you move the REITs over. In terms of which kind of account it goes in, I would favor putting it into a retirement account because it does throw off some distributions. They are actually pretty good about not making them too nasty, but there will be some unpredictable distributions, particularly at the end of the year out of that fund, particularly if it has a good year. I don't think you would think it'd be a maximum growth kind of thing, so I don't think you would put it in the Roth. Question three, gold, you're wondering when to make the investment. This was what we just went over in the last question from Average Joe. Hey Rocky, watch me pull a rabbit out of my hat. Again? And the answer is, I still don't know the answer. Now the crystal ball has been used since ancient times. It's used for scrying, healing, and meditation. Or at least can't tell you what would be the best answer. So if it's the most comfortable, just dollar-cost average it over there, over a little period of time. But you could put it all in at once if that was more convenient for you. We have actually had a pullback, so if that's important, go ahead and use that as a reason to go ahead and make the investment now. All right, next question, brokerage account taxes. You're wondering how to control those. And I think basically what you want in your brokerage account is mostly your stocks. And if you have things that pay dividends, you want the ones that pay qualified dividends. And I don't know whether that would include whatever international fund you are using that may need to go in the IRA. I also don't know what the proportions are of each of these accounts. But I would not be holding excessive short-term bonds or T-bills or anything outside of retirement accounts. You really only want to hold what you think you're going to be using in the next year, and maybe not even that, because those will be generating a lot of ordinary income right now. And if you are using standard kind of index funds for your stock holdings, I would not expect those dividends to change a whole lot year to year. They'll probably be pretty consistent, and they'll probably be around 2% if you're just talking about a basic index fund. they'll probably be around 2% if you're just talking about a basic index fund. All right, question five. Any other thoughts or suggestions? Well, I would suggest that you also take these plans and go and model them over at Portfolio Visualizer using the Monte Carlo simulator there in particular to see how things would pan out. And I'd also probably download the toolbox from early retirement now and run a portfolio like this in there. You won't be able to run your exact portfolio in that, but they do have stocks and Fama French factors and treasury bonds and gold there. So you can construct a portfolio of all those things and see how it performed over the past 100 years or so. And that might be valuable too. Make sure you also check out the other calculators at portfolio charts, including the safe withdrawal rate one in particular. But you're definitely on the right track here. And I hope you can come up with something that works for you. And I think what you've got there should work pretty well. The best, Jerry. The best. Just one note on your last comment you wrote. Love listening to the podcast every week and always appreciate the laughs from the clips. You are talking about the nonsensical ravings of a lunatic mind. This is always the most controversial thing about this podcast. And I will read you my latest one-star review for your amusement as well. That's not an improvement. And it says, The content of this podcast seems okay, perhaps even helpful, but the sound bites are immensely distracting. If you're looking to be entertained like a 10-year-old child with ADHD would enjoy, this podcast may be for you. All pay heed. Now enters His Holiness, Takamata, the Grand Inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition. Spanish Inquisition. What can I say? I resemble that remark. Talk Amada. Do not implore him for compassion. Good thing this is a hobby and I'm not dependent on sponsorships. Talk Amada. Do not beg him for forgiveness. But it does kind of weed out the riffraff, I must say Anyway, hopefully that helps and thank you for your email Next off, we have an email from kimbro from alaska and this is actually the last part of an email that kimbro already sent us but got garbled and so he didn't get the last part of it last time. So we're just reading that part of it. And Kimbrough writes, Hello, Frank and Mary. Hello again, and thank you for all you do. Wow, how lucky we are that you are on this planet, genuinely and peacefully sharing your wisdom. Oh no, my young Jedi. Oh no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are mistaken about a great many things. PFF is also down at a low now. I need these pieces of the whole diversification picture. Maybe buying in now at a low is no problem. I'm just shy. Thank you, thank you, and thank you again. Kimbrough and Anchorage, Alaska. All right, I'm not sure you would want to use PFF at all. It's kind of a specialty thing. And PFF is a preferred shares fund, and really what it's most useful and who it's most useful for are people that are in high income tax brackets, but they want to hold some kind of bond-like thing in their taxable account for whatever reason they need to do that. And if you're in that situation, something like PFF is helpful because it pays qualified dividends, and therefore you're not paying ordinary income tax rates on that for its dividends. There's another fund called PFFV, which I also find pretty useful, and it's paying a higher dividend than PFF is right now, as well as having a lower expense fee. But unless you fall into that category and would otherwise be buying some kind of corporate bonds or something, you probably don't need to have PFF in your portfolio. So I'd probably just let it go. And thank you for the rest of your email. Anchor's down in Anchorage. Anchor's down in Anchorage. Last off. Last off of an email from John. Well, how about John? That's nice and simple. What, are you serious? Well, yeah. John, you want to do that to the kid? Do what? And John writes. Hi, Frank, and thanks, Mary. Welp, I picked an asset allocation, and now I just need to let it be. Uh, what? It's gone. It thanks, Mary. Well, I picked an asset allocation and now I just need to let it be. Uh, what? It's gone. It's all gone. What's all gone? The money in your account. It didn't do too well. It's gone. Given my psychological makeup, I think I need to step away, stop engaging with these topics for a while, stop looking at my account so frequently, and ideally become appropriately detached but attentive. Do you have any tips for striking that balance over the long run? Is there a minimum level of attentiveness to your long-term investments that you would recommend before detachment becomes negligence? Or can it be okay, or maybe even for the best, to disengage completely? Thanks as always, John. Hey, John. Hey, let's go to the John. Huh, John? Let's go. Well, wouldn't he outgrow those jokes? Look, kids are mean. Look, I just want him to have a happy childhood too, but long John Silver? I mean, I don't know what to say. All right, this is a follow-up to John's emails that we talked about in episodes 329 and 330 about his various portfolio machinations and use of the portfolio matrix at portfolio charts. Groovy, baby! But getting to your question, I don't really know your exact temperament, but in general, people who are not looking at their portfolio or fiddling with it often or thinking about it often tend to do better than the ones that are looking at it and fiddling with it pretty often. So you may want to take the app off your phone if that's what you use to look at it with. On the other hand, I don't have any trouble looking at my portfolio fairly often. And I have to for the purpose of this podcast anyway. So I think it helps if you just have a very long perspective on what has happened in the past and all of the different things that could happen. And you see that everything is generally just some kind of variation of something that happened before. that everything is generally just some kind of variation of something that happened before. Even 2022 was kind of like what happened in the 1970s towards the end of it and back in 1937. So there's always some kind of analog that you might want to look at or could look at. I think if you don't have that kind of historical perspective, that's what makes people really nervous. And it's problematic because they tend to think that this never happened before, something like this never happened before. And the truth is always, well, this exact thing didn't happen before, but something like it or something that had a similar effect did happen before. You're just not aware of it. You keep using that word. I don't think it means what you think it means. Now, how often do you really need to look at it? Well, probably not very often. You just need to look at it for the purpose of rebalancing or withdrawals or something like that. And obviously when you do your taxes, you have to deal with it then. So if you just wanted to look at it every quarter or every year or every month, that would be fine. You need somebody watching your back at all times. I do think you can disengage pretty completely, if that is what you'd like to do as well. So maybe give that a spin for a while and see how you feel about it. It could work! Give that a spin for a while and see how you feel about it. It. Could. Work! As long as you're not actually playing around with it and trying to market time, you can look at it as often as you like. Sorry, that wasn't a very definitive answer, but it is what it is and it does depend largely on your personality hopefully it helps a little bit and thank you for your email bow to your sensei bow to your sensei but now i see our signal is beginning to fade if you have comments or questions for me please please send them to frank at riskparityradar.com. That email is frank at riskparityradar.com. Or you can go to the website www.riskparityradar.com, put your message into the contact form, and I'll get it that way. We are about three weeks to a month behind on these emails, but we will be getting to them, even though we have some more hiatus periods coming up. Because we've got graduations and weddings and rowing competitions and all sorts of things going on. If you haven't had a chance to do it, please go to your favorite podcast provider and like, subscribe, give me some stars, hopefully more than one. And a follow that would be great thank you once again for tuning in this is Frank Vasquez with Risk Party Radio signing off The Risk Parody Radio Show is hosted by Frank Vasquez. The content provided is for entertainment and informational purposes only and does not constitute financial, investment, tax, or legal advice. Please consult with your own advisors before taking any actions based on any information you have heard here, making sure to take into account your own personal circumstances.