 A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines. If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. A different drummer. And now, coming to you from dead center on your dial, welcome to Risk Parity Radio, where we explore alternatives and asset allocations for the do-it-yourself investor. Broadcasting to you now from the comfort of his easy chair, here is your host, Frank Vasquez. Thank you, Mary, and welcome to Risk Parity Radio. If you have just stumbled in here, you will find that this podcast is kind of like a dive bar of personal finance and do-it-yourself investing. Expect the unexpected. It's a relatively small place. It's just me and Mary in here. And we only have a few mismatched bar stools and some easy chairs. We have no sponsors, we have no guests, and we have no expansion plans. I don't think I'd like another job. There are basically two kinds of people that like to hang out in this little dive bar. You see, in this world, there's two kinds of people, my friend. The smaller group are those who actually think the host is funny, regardless of the content of the podcast. Funny how? How am I funny? These include friends and family, and a number of people named Abby. Abby someone. Abby who? Abby normal. Abby normal. Abbey normal. The larger group includes a number of highly successful do-it-yourself investors, many of whom have accumulated multi-million dollar portfolios over a period of years. The best, Jerry. The best. years. The best, Jerry, the best. And they are here to share information and to gather information to help them continue managing their portfolios as they go forward, particularly as they get to their distribution or decumulation phases of their financial life. What we do is if we need that extra push over the cliff, you know what we do? Put it up to 11. 11, exactly. But whomever you are, you are welcome here. I have a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore. But now onward to episode 318. Today on Risk Parity Radio, it's time for our weekly portfolio reviews of the seven sample portfolios you can find at www.riskparityradio.com. On the portfolios page, just a preview of that. Boring! Yes, this was one of the most boring weeks in the markets in a couple of years, probably. I'm putting you to sleep! One of the most boring weeks in the markets in a couple of years, probably. I'm putting you to sleep. But before I put you to sleep with that... I'm intrigued by this. How you say? Emails. And... First off... First off, we have an email from Anderson. All the old boys are going to be here this year. Dick, Peter, Rod, Johnson. Why haven't heard a rumor that old John Thomas might show up this time? And Anderson writes, Uncle Frank, I am probably 20 plus years from retirement. I am hoping to maximize my accumulation portfolio as much as possible. I've been following your show for a long time and have been closely following a lot of your sample portfolios. Also, over the past three years with the ups and downs in the market, I've realized that I think I can handle market volatility from a psychological aspect. You have a gambling problem. from a psychological aspect. You have a gambling problem. Currently, my portfolio is a simple S&P 500 fund and small cap value. I am considering this move to maximize my accumulation. Large cap growth 30%, small cap value 50%, UPRO 20%. I know this will be volatile, but I think I can stomach it. I know UPRO is a daily leverage, and there is a lot of concern about volatility decay, but several articles and discussions have convinced me that, although it won't match three times performance long-term, it should outperform over time. My other thought was NTSX instead, and possibly a higher allocation. What would be your recommendation to maximize returns in an accumulation portfolio with little to no concern about volatility? Thanks again, Anderson. Well, John Thomas, how long's it been? That long, huh? Oh, sure. I got Dick's number. Well, isn't it funny how so many more of these gambling problems appear when markets are near an all-time high? Yeah, that's just a joke. Well, you have a gambling problem. So I always come back here to the academic research on this, and I'll link again to this Ben Felix video about leverage. And his observation there and what academics have observed is that there's really only two ways to beat the market. One is to take a concentration in something that you think is going to do better than the market, which has proven to be very difficult to accomplish over long periods of time. It's only a limited number of people can do that consistently. And then the second one is to take leverage on the portfolio. You're going to end up eating a steady diet of government cheese and living in a van down by the river. And obviously, if the market does well or positively, you will do better than the market because you are effectively multiplying that return. Time is money, boy. And that always begs you the second question, which is, well, assuming you're planning on taking leverage, how would you do that? There are basically two ways of doing that. One is to invest on margin at a place like Interactive Brokers where you can get at least a reasonable interest rate. And the other one is to use these newly constructed leveraged funds, which have really only been around for about 15 years now. Now, I had another listener run a very interesting analysis trying to compare which one of those ideas was better based on prevailing interest rates. And I don't remember what the exact conclusion was, although at current interest rates, it appears that taking margin would be a very expensive way to do this. way to do this. When it was one or two percent that you could take margin on, it made a whole lot of sense to use that method as opposed to leveraged funds. Now, a leveraged fund like Upro is charging you about one percent or slightly less than one percent just to operate in addition to its other potential drawbacks having to do with decay and volatility drag. But as you and many other people have observed, these things do seem to be viable for at least some leverage in portfolios. And if you go over to that website, Optimize Portfolio, they talk all about these leveraged funds all the time. I will link to that again in the show notes but if you're interested in these things i would read a lot of the articles there because it does compare and contrast them in addition to providing a bunch of different sample portfolios based on traditional portfolios so looking at what you're proposing here it looks like you're taking leverage of about 1.4 to 1, which doesn't seem to be too excessive to me. When you look at most plans for leverage, they do seem to be in the range of about that to about 2 to 1 with the golden ratio kind of in the middle of that, about 1.6 to 1. There's another interesting article I've linked to before called Warren Buffett's Alpha, and it observes that you could model Berkshire Hathaway's performance as a leveraged performance based on the float that they hold with the insurance companies in that portfolio, and it's at 1.7 to 1. So 1.4 to 1 does not seem to me to be a huge stretch. It still will cause you to have severe downturns when the stock market falls. I think the only way to ameliorate that would be to add a little bit more small cap value into this, but I'm not sure that's actually going to make much of a difference over time if you have a big 2008 style downturn. I feel like this is something you could probably hold for five or ten years and then reevaluate it as your assets grow, your uncomfortability with the volatility may increase. Because it's one thing if you have a hundred thousand dollars and it goes down 50 it's completely a different thing if you have a million dollars and it goes down five hundred thousand dollars you can't handle the gambling problem i believe i had another listener who proposed just a couple episodes ago a portfolio of i think Upro and 70% small cap value, which would be a very similar idea. Now, thinking about NTSX, that's actually something that somebody generally would use when they're trying to get some leverage in a portfolio, but what they're trying to do is construct a diversified portfolio that has the same expected return characteristics as the overall market. So since that is a 60-40 portfolio levered up, what Corey Hofstein and others have proposed is you could take something like that, take two-thirds of your portfolio and put it into NTSX, your portfolio and put it into NTSX, which would be like having a 100% in a 60-40 portfolio and then adding on top of that some kind of alternative investment such as managed futures, which in theory is going to have a similar return profile to a total stock market portfolio, but have less volatility and less risk. And something like that is what I believe Corey Hofstein actually holds in his personal portfolio. I will find the YouTube video from Excess Returns where he describes that. That whole series from Excess Returns is very interesting. They go to many different people and just ask them what's in their personal portfolio and so you get cory hofstein and rick ferry and larry swedrow and a number of other people what's interesting to me is how diverse those portfolios actually are and that a lot of them do not follow traditional ideas, if you will, but have been modified or modernized from typical recommendations. Anyway, I should mention that two of my adult children do play around with some leverage funds and part of their portfolios, but I have told them that they would be best to limit their exposure to such things. All we need to do is get your confidence back so you can make me more money. A good place to do this is actually in a Roth account, but I don't think anybody should be afraid to experiment with this on a limited basis, particularly if they are in their accumulation phase and we're not talking about betting the farm on such a thing. tina you fat lard come get some dinner anyway hopefully that helps and thank you for your email boy i'll tell you what dusty i felt like a one-legged cat trying to bury turds on a frozen pond out there today. Second off. Second off, we have an email from Dennis. And Dennis writes... Hi, Frank. Thanks for your podcast. I discovered it over Christmas and have gone back and listened to many, but certainly not yet all, of the old episodes. Apologies if you have covered this previously, but I would be interested in hearing your views on portfolio construction for an early retiree, 55 years, that is estimating about a 3% required withdrawal rate based on current size of portfolio, expected future, pension, etc. Theoretically, if the portfolio can handle the volatility, etc. Theoretically, if the portfolio can handle the volatility, then perhaps a higher allocation to equities is warranted. How would you think about optimizing a portfolio in this circumstance? Thanks, Dennis. D-E-N-N-I-S. The Dennis System. All right, yes, I have answered a question like this before, but not for a really long time. So there's no reason I shouldn't be answering it again. So anyway, your question could actually be interpreted in two different ways. One as being 3% the maximum or the intended withdrawal rate, and another one being 3% as a minimum withdrawal rate, as in 3% is covering your baseline expenses, and then you plan to actually spend more than that. Let's deal with both of those ideas or questions. The first one being the if you plan to just withdraw about 3% out of your portfolio as an expected burn rate. Now the way I like to approach questions like this is to think about what is called the revealed preference of the person taking the action. a revealed preference is an idea from economics that says that we don't care about what people subjectively say they're trying to do or want to do. What we are more interested in is the objective, probable consequences of their action. And so when somebody comes and says, I intend to take only 3% out of my portfolio, what that is is a revealed preference for essentially dying with the highest net worth. Dead is dead. Because that is the most probable consequence of taking only 3% out of a reasonably or even not well diversified portfolio, is that you will die at your highest net worth. From a psychological point of view, when I see people holding portfolios like this or having this intent, it generally implies a couple of different things. One, that they're fear-based and kind of myopic about what they're doing. And the second is they haven't actually grappled with the concept that they will die. And so they behave as if they are going to live forever and therefore need to have a really low withdrawal rate. But I've got news for you. Here's a horoscope for everyone. Aquarius, you're gonna die capricorn you're gonna die gemini you're gonna die twice leo you're gonna die anyway so if you only need to have a three percent withdrawal rate you can hold almost anything within reason. And what I mean by that is you could hold a portfolio that is only about 30% in stocks and the rest in bonds, annuities, cash savings, all sorts of other things. Or you could hold a portfolio that's 100% in stocks and either one would work. percent in stocks and either one would work. The one that's 100 percent in stocks would also imply a goal that you want to leave a massive fortune to somebody else. Whereas the one with 30 percent in stocks implies a preference that you just don't want to have to deal with any volatility. It's kind of a sleep better at night kind of portfolio. But once you are talking about sleep better at night kind of portfolios, then you should be looking at things like bond ladders and annuities. Because what you're saying is you're really not cut out for investing in volatile portfolios. And when you get to something like age 70, the payout from a single premium immediate annuity is going to be over 7% these days. So you'd be much better off putting a chunk of change into that and taking the money than trying to fiddle around with some complicated portfolio involving a bunch of buckets and flower pots and ladders and junk. That's not an improvement. Thinking you're doing something because your strategy here is just don't spend much money. It has nothing to do with your machinations and ability to construct a portfolio. Forget about it. So the simplest solution for somebody who wanted to just draw 3% and not think about it would be to invest in something like the Vanguard Wellesley Fund, which is a 35-65 stock bond portfolio with the stocks focused on large cap value kind of stocks. And you could just do that and be done and then add some annuities or other things as you age. Or you could go with the Vanguard Wellington or some kind of simple pre-fund portfolio or as much stocks as you wanted. I think JL Collins holds an 80-20 portfolio and he plans on leaving a legacy so he's in this low burn rate kind of environment. And if you look at most financial gurus you could name, they are mostly spending well under what they could spend, which is why their portfolios can just be all over the map and it really doesn't matter because they're all going to die with their highest net worth anyway. That's the fact, Jack! That's the fact, Jack! And so in that line, if your goal is to simply accumulate as much money to give to somebody else or some charity at some point, then yes, you would want to essentially stay in an accumulation kind of portfolio with lots of stocks in it. And then your only questions are going to have to do with tax optimization because there's a lot of circumstances in which you may be better off transferring some of that wealth to whomever's going to get it anyway and not be holding onto it yourself. And that's another consideration that people have trouble grasping i'm not dead what nothing here's your ninepence i'm not dead yeah he says he's not dead yes he is i'm not he isn't well he will be soon he's very ill i'm getting better no you're not you'll be stone dead in a moment i can can't take him like that. It's against regulations. I don't want to go with the car. Oh, don't be such a baby. I can't take him. I feel fine. Well, do us a favour. I can't. Well, can you hang around a couple of minutes? He won't be long. No, I've got to go to the Robinsons. They've lost nine today. Well, when You're not fooling anyone, you know. Look, isn't there something you can do? I feel happy. I feel happy. Thanks very much. Not at all. And so they do kind of foolish things like live off their pensions and Social Security and then have this other pile of money which they leave in cash somewhere. And that's just not helping them. It's not helping their heirs. It's not helping anybody. Because what you should be doing is investing it for the person or entity who is actually likely to be using the money. And if it's not going to be you, then invest it like you're somebody else did you get that memo but again i think most of this suboptimal and irrational handling of finances in retirement has a lot to do with the rational fears and the failure to grapple with the concept that you're going to die in a limited amount of time you can't handle the truth so you may want to spend some of that money on therapy. Yeah, baby, yeah. Because irrational handling of money often causes a lot of problems in interpersonal relationships, both between the person hoarding the money and their relatives or heirs or spouses, and in the potential people inheriting the money who are likely to fight over it sorry we're closed well then what are all these people doing here drinking and having a good time well that's why we're here you're too stupid to have a good turn. There was a great Rational Reminder podcast that came out a couple of months ago about this sort of wealth planning 3.0 for families and dealing with these sorts of issues and the suboptimal behaviors that people have with respect to managing their family wealth. I will link to that in the show notes. It's an excellent discussion with somebody who's an expert in that area. Okay, now turning to the idea that 3% is your minimum amount you want to be distributing, that is more in line with what we're really talking about here and trying to do here, which is actually to maximize the amount we can spend in retirement in a reasonable manner that will not cause us to run out of money. And if that's what you're trying to do, then you are trying to maximize the projected safe withdrawal rate of your portfolio as opposed to trying to maximize the amount you'll have at death, which would imply a stock-heavy portfolio, or minimize the overall volatility of the portfolio, which would imply one of these 30% stock portfolios or something involving annuities and bond ladders. So if you're trying to do that and 3% is your minimum, and that's the way I actually conduct our withdrawal management, is to have 3% be covering baseline expenses, what I call keep the lights on expenses. Have another 1% for comfort expenses, which would be hiring people to clean your house and do your lawn and paying for gym memberships and all sorts of other things that you could live without, going out to eat, that sort of stuff. And then another 1% for extravagances like expensive trips to Peru and so those are the kinds of portfolios that are we are most interested in constructing here and the golden butterfly and golden ratio are examples of those kinds of portfolios. If you look at the 100-year history of portfolios that maximize a projected safe withdrawal rate, they tend to have between 40 and 70 percent in equities, with half of that or at least half of that tilted towards value. They tend to use treasury bonds as the kind of bonds that you're holding, generally intermediate and long-term treasury bonds. They tend to have 10% or less in cash or short-term instruments. And then they tend to have between 10 and 25 percent in alternative assets that are not stocks or bonds. And the way you test these things is by looking at historicals and then running Monte Carlo simulations where you take more than one portfolio and test it over a data set. As much data as you have available is generally the best idea and to use more than one calculator. And that is how you would optimize a portfolio to spend the most money from it. Which gets me back to the answer to your basic question, how would you think about optimizing a portfolio in this circumstance? That always just begs the question, which is optimizing it for what? Because if your strategy is only spend 3% of it, your strategy is don't spend much money. That is how you're solving your retirement quandary or question. And since you're not optimizing for spending, that means you are optimizing for something else. And you need to really determine what is that thing you are optimizing for something else. And you need to really determine what is that thing you're optimizing for. You can't handle the crystal ball. And once you get honest with yourself about what you are optimizing for, then you can choose a portfolio such as a high equity exposure portfolio, which is optimizing for the largest amount to be held at death, to be given to somebody else. Never go in against a Sicilian when death is on the line. And if you do want to be objective with these things, I think you really should be looking at this from the economist's revealed preference analysis of any portfolio and not subjective thoughts of various people. Do the objective analysis first and then add the subjectivity in after that based on your own preferences. Anyway, hopefully that helps and thank you for your email. Do you have anything from the Mother Earth that would be sprayed on me and cause me to have feelings again because I'm having trouble feeling things. Last off. Last off we have an email from Phil. Phil? Hey Phil? Phil? Phil Connors? Phil Connors, I thought that was you. And Phil writes, Frank and Mary, this is a follow-up from an email you read on episode 315. Interesting, I wrote the earlier email while I was in Ecuador, about at the same altitude you were at Machu Picchu. I wrote that at a cafe on the rim of Kila Toa. Well, that is an interesting coincidence. I guess great minds think alike at high altitudes. Hopefully you were drinking some coca tea, which I found to be very helpful with the altitudes there. Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit amphetamines. Anyway, if anything, that calls for some Andean flute music, which I am happy to indulge you with. And thank you for your email. Thank you. And now for something completely different. And the something completely different is our weekly portfolio reviews of the seven sample portfolios you can find at www.riskparryradar.com on the portfolios page. As I mentioned at the the beginning there isn't much to report this week at all i have officially amounted to jack you squat so feel free to skip this part if you really don't need to hear it it's all on the website anyway looking at the markets last week the s&p 500 was up 1.37% for the week. The NASDAQ was a big winner. It was up 2.31% for the week. Small cap value represented by the fund VIOV was up 0.49% for the week. Gold was down. It was down 0.89% for the week. Long-term treasury bonds represented by the fund VGLT were down. They were the big loser last week. They were down 2.17% for the week. REITs represented by the fund REET were down 0.17% for the week. Commodities represented by the fund PDVC were up. They were up 1.97% for the week. Preferred shares represented by the fund PFF were down 0.06% for the week. Preferred shares represented by the fund PFF were down 0.06% for the week. And managed futures represented by the fund DBMF were up 0.34% for the week. Going to these sample portfolios, the first one is this reference portfolio. They call the all-seasons. It's only 30% in a stock stock fund 55 percent in intermediate and long-term treasury bonds and 15 percent in golden commodities it was down all of 0.18 percent for the week it's down 0.31 percent year-to-date and up 1.2 percent since inception in july 2020 and moving to these more bread and butter kind of portfolios, first one's Golden Butterfly. This one's 40% in stocks divided into a total stock market fund and a small cap value fund, 40% in bonds, treasury bonds divided into short and long, and 20% in gold, GLDM. It was down 0.01% for the week, just about flat. It's down 1.09% year-to-date and up 19.21% since inception in July 2020. Next one's a golden ratio. This one's 42% in stocks and three funds, 26% in long-term treasuries, 16% in gold, 10% in a REIT fund, and 6% in cash in a money market fund. It was down 0.09% for the week, it's down 0.70% year-to-date, and up 16.23% since inception July 2020. Now moving to the risk parity ultimate portfolio. This one's kind of our kitchen sink where we put a little bit of everything, including a little bit of Bitcoin and Ethereum to make it interesting. I'm not going to run through all 15 of these funds. You can look at it on the website, but it was actually up 0.46% for the week. I think on the strength of that crypto. Excitement reigns with that. Good thing it's only a small portion of this. But it's up 0.05% year-to-date. It's up 6.89% since inception in July 2020. Now moving to the experimental portfolios involving leveraged funds tony stark was able to build this in a cave with a box of scraps don't try this at home even though some of you do hopefully not for a decumulation portfolio but only to accumulate something the first one is the accelerated permanent portfolio. This one is 27.5% in a levered bond fund, TMF. 25% in a levered stock fund, UPRO. 25% in a preferred shares fund, PFF. And 22.5% in gold, GLDM. It was down 0.91% for the week. It's down 0.73% year-to-date, down 9.08% since inception in July 2020. If the stock market continues to perform well next week, we may end up with a rebalancing opportunity. We will see, but if the percentage of UPRO goes up to 32.5%, that would trigger a rebalancing. It's at 30.41% of the portfolio right now. Moving to the next one, which is our least diversified and most levered portfolio, the aggressive 50-50. This one's one-third in a levered stock fund, UPRO, one-third in a levered bond fund, TMF, and one-third in ballast, PFF, and VGIT. It was down 0.53% for the week. It's up 0.52% year-to-date, down 17.57% since inception in July 2020. This one also could potentially be rebalanced, as the stock fund is now 40.7% of the overall portfolio. We'll check it again on the 15th. But if it's still there at that time, it will trigger a rebalancing. Real wrath of God type stuff. How exciting. Moving to the last one, our youngest one, the levered golden ratio. This one's 35% in a composite fund NTSX, which is the S&P 500, and treasury bonds levered up 1.5 to 1. It's 25 in gold 15 in a reet oh 10 each in a levered bond fund tmf and a levered small cap fund tna and the remaining five percent in a managed futures fund kmlm it was down 0.15 percent for the week it's down 2.21% year-to-date and down 15.37% since inception in July 2021. It's notable that the small cap fund, which is based on the Russell 2000, peaked in late 2021 and is still down about 20% since then, even though the broader stock market or the large cap part of the stock market is at all-time highs again. One would think it would catch up at some point, as it has in every other period in history, but right now we're just waiting for that to happen at some point. Anyway, that concludes our portfolio reviews for the week. And now I see our signal is beginning to fade. If you have comments or questions for me, please send them to frankatriskparityradar.com. That email is frankatriskparityradar.com. Or you can go to the website, www.riskparityradar.com, and put your message into the contact form, and I'll get it that way. If you haven't had a chance to do it, please go to your favorite podcast provider and like, subscribe, give me some stars, a review, a follow. That would be great. Okay. Thank you once again for tuning in. This is Frank Vasquez with Risk Parity Radio. Signing off. Thank you. Thank you. The Risk Parody Radio Show is hosted by Frank Vasquez. The content provided is for entertainment and informational purposes only and does not constitute financial, investment, tax, or legal advice. Please consult with your own advisors before taking any actions based on any information you have heard here, making sure to take into account your own personal circumstances.